CoC annual review (#941)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2025-01-20-conduct2024/index.md

---
title: rOpenSci Code of Conduct Annual Review
author:
  - Yanina Bellini Saibene
  - Mark Padgham
  - Natalia Morandeira
date: '2025-01-20'
slug: conduct2024
tags:
  - code of conduct
  - governance
  - community
description: Updates for version 2.5 of rOpenSci's Code of Conduct
---

> rOpenSci’s activities and spaces are supporter by a Code of Conduct 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rOpenSci’s activities and spaces are supported by a Code of Conduct 
```

> rOpenSci’s activities and spaces are supporter by a Code of Conduct 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
rOpenSci's activities and spaces are supported by a Code of Conduct 
```

including rOpenSci staff and leadership.
It applies to all modes of interaction online including GitHub project repositories, 
the rOpenSci discussion forum, Slack, Community Calls, Co-working and social sessions, 
in person at rOpenSci-hosted events, including social gatherings affiliated with the event.
It is developed and enforced by a committee including rOpenSci staff and an independent community member.

Here we report on our annual review of rOpenSci's Code of Conduct, 
reporting process, and internal guidelines for handling reports and enforcement.

## Updates

1.  No changes of Committee members for 2024.
    The committee members are [Natalia Morandeira](/author/natalia-morandeira/) (independent member), 
    [Mark Padgham](/author/mark-padgham) (rOpenSci Software Research Scientist) and 
    [Yanina Bellini Saibene](/author/yanina-bellini-saibene) (rOpenSci Community Manager).
    We are responsible for receiving, investigating, deciding, enforcing, 
    and reporting on all reports of potential violations of our Code.

2.  No changes have been made to the text of the Code in English and Spanish.

3.  We have the text of the Code of Conduct translated into Portuguese.

>     The Portuguese version is available at thanks to [Beatriz Milz](/author/beatriz-milz/) 

Author: ```suggestion
    The Portuguese version is available at [https://ropensci.org/pt/código-de-conduta/](https://ropensci.org/pt/código-de-conduta/) thanks to [Beatriz Milz](/author/beatriz-milz/) 
```

    and [Francesca Palmeira](/author/francesca-belem-lopes-palmeira/) for the translation.

> With this change of committee members, this will be version 2.5, dated January 30, 2024.

Author: ```suggestion
As we didn't have any change, we maintain the version 2.5, dated January 30, 2024.
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
## Committee Members Activities
```

> Yanina Bellini Saibene attend the Book Club organizaed by R-Ladies Global to 

Author: ```suggestion
Yanina Bellini Saibene attend the Book Club organized by R-Ladies Global to 
```

> ## Committee Members Activities

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

## Committee Members Activities
```

> read and discuss the book "". It was a good opportunity to discuss and learn with 

Author: ```suggestion
read and discuss the book ["How to Respond to Code of Conduct Reports"](https://files.frameshiftconsulting.com/books/cocguide.pdf). It was a good opportunity to discuss and learn with 
```

> Yanina Bellini Saibene attend the Book Club organized by R-Ladies Global to 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Yanina Bellini Saibene attended the Book Club organized by R-Ladies Global to 
```

> Yanina Bellini Saibene attend the Book Club organized by R-Ladies Global to 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Yanina Bellini Saibene attended the Book Club organized by R-Ladies Global to 
```

attended or attends

Here we report on our annual review of rOpenSci's Code of Conduct, 
reporting process, and internal guidelines for handling reports and enforcement.

## Updates

1.  No changes of Committee members for 2024.
    The committee members are [Natalia Morandeira](/author/natalia-morandeira/) (independent member), 
    [Mark Padgham](/author/mark-padgham) (rOpenSci Software Research Scientist) and 
    [Yanina Bellini Saibene](/author/yanina-bellini-saibene) (rOpenSci Community Manager).
    We are responsible for receiving, investigating, deciding, enforcing, 
    and reporting on all reports of potential violations of our Code.

2.  No changes have been made to the text of the Code in English and Spanish.

3.  We have the text of the Code of Conduct translated into Portuguese.
    The Portuguese version is available at [https://ropensci.org/pt/código-de-conduta/](https://ropensci.org/pt/código-de-conduta/) thanks to [Beatriz Milz](/author/beatriz-milz/) 
    and [Francesca Palmeira](/author/francesca-belem-lopes-palmeira/) for the translation.

As we didn't have any change, we maintain the version 2.5, dated January 30, 2024.

> ## Committee Members Activities

Author: ```suggestion
## Committee Members Activities

We reflected on how we handle incidents, decide, take necessary actions, and possibly communicate with the reported and/or reported persons. As a result of this conversation, we have been working on a template to guide the CoC steps.
```

---
title: rOpenSci Code of Conduct Annual Review
author:
  - Yanina Bellini Saibene
  - Mark Padgham

>   - Natalia Morandeira

Reviewer 4: Even for this kind of post?
```suggestion
  - Natalia Morandeira
 editor: Steffi LaZerte
```

> date: '2025-01-20'

Reviewer 4: Update the date here and in the folder name

slug: conduct2024
tags:
  - code of conduct
  - governance
  - community

> description: Updates for version 2.5 of rOpenSci's Code of Conduct

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
description: Updates for version 2.5 of rOpenSci's Code of Conduct
params: 
  doi: 10.59350/s04cn-nya15
```

---

> rOpenSci’s activities and spaces are supported by a Code of Conduct 

Reviewer: I think this first mention of CoC should include a direct link to it

Author: Link added.

> rOpenSci’s activities and spaces are supported by a Code of Conduct 

Author: ```suggestion
rOpenSci’s activities and spaces are supported by a [Code of Conduct](/code-of-conduct/) 
```

that applies to all people participating in the rOpenSci community, 
including rOpenSci staff and leadership.

> It applies to all modes of interaction online including GitHub project repositories, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It applies to all modes of interaction including GitHub project repositories, 
```
(I think that reads better without that word)

the rOpenSci discussion forum, Slack, Community Calls, Co-working and social sessions, 

> in person at rOpenSci-hosted events, including social gatherings affiliated with the event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and in person at rOpenSci-hosted events, including affiliated social gatherings.
```

> It is developed and enforced by a committee including rOpenSci staff and an independent community member.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our Code of Conduct is developed and enforced by a committee including rOpenSci staff and an independent community member.
```

> Here we report on our annual review of rOpenSci's Code of Conduct, 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Here we report our annual review of rOpenSci's Code of Conduct, 
```

reporting process, and internal guidelines for handling reports and enforcement.

## Updates

> 1.  No changes of Committee members for 2024.

Author: ```suggestion
1.  No changes of Committee members for 2025.
```

    The committee members are [Natalia Morandeira](/author/natalia-morandeira/) (independent member), 
    [Mark Padgham](/author/mark-padgham) (rOpenSci Software Research Scientist) and 
    [Yanina Bellini Saibene](/author/yanina-bellini-saibene) (rOpenSci Community Manager).

>     We are responsible for receiving, investigating, deciding, enforcing, 

Reviewer 4: "deciding" just doesn't sound right here. It in this context it would probably be "making decisions regarding", but that's pretty wordy. Can it be omitted? Or perhaps use "adjudicating"? (took me a while to find a good alternative!)

```suggestion
    We are responsible for receiving, investigating, adjudicating, enforcing, 
```

>     and reporting on all reports of potential violations of our Code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    and responding to all reports of potential violations of our Code.
```
(Just to remove the repetition of "reporting on reports")

> 2.  No changes have been made to the text of the Code in English and Spanish.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.  No changes have been made to the text of the Code in English or Spanish.
```

> 3.  We have the text of the Code of Conduct translated into Portuguese.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.  The text of the Code of Conduct has been translated into Portuguese.
```
Plus i suggest the whole paragraph could be better written as:

> The text of the Code of Conduct has been translated into Portuguese, thanks to [Beatriz Milz](https://deploy-preview-941--ropensci.netlify.app/author/beatriz-milz/) and [Francesca Palmeira](https://deploy-preview-941--ropensci.netlify.app/author/francesca-belem-lopes-palmeira/). The Portuguese version is available at [https://ropensci.org/pt/código-de-conduta/](https://ropensci.org/pt/c%C3%B3digo-de-conduta/).

> 3.  The text of the Code of Conduct has been translated into Portuguese.

Author: ```suggestion
3.  The text of the Code of Conduct has been translated into Portuguese, thanks to [Beatriz Milz](/author/beatriz-milz/) and [Francesca Palmeira](/author/francesca-belem-lopes-palmeira/).
```

>     The Portuguese version is available at [https://ropensci.org/pt/código-de-conduta/](https://ropensci.org/pt/código-de-conduta/) thanks to [Beatriz Milz](/author/beatriz-milz/) 

Author: ```suggestion
    The Portuguese version is available at [https://ropensci.org/pt/código-de-conduta/](https://ropensci.org/pt/código-de-conduta/).
```

>     The Portuguese version is available at [https://ropensci.org/pt/código-de-conduta/](https://ropensci.org/pt/código-de-conduta/).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    The Portuguese version is available at [https://ropensci.org/pt/código-de-conduta/](/pt/código-de-conduta/).
```

>     and [Francesca Palmeira](/author/francesca-belem-lopes-palmeira/) for the translation.

Author: ```suggestion
  
```

> As we didn't have any change, we maintain the version 2.5, dated January 30, 2024.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the text has remained unchanged, the version number is kept at 2.5, dated January 30, 2024.
```

## Committee Members Activities

> We reflected on how we handle incidents, decide, take necessary actions, and possibly communicate with the reported and/or reported persons. As a result of this conversation, we have been working on a template to guide the CoC steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We reflected on how we handle incidents, decide, take necessary actions, and possibly communicate both with reporters and/or reported persons. As a result of this reflection, we have been working on a template to guide the CoC steps.
```

> We reflected on how we handle incidents, decide, take necessary actions, and possibly communicate both with reporters and/or reported persons. As a result of this reflection, we have been working on a template to guide the CoC steps.

Reviewer 4: I think you can omit "possibly", as thinking about "how you communicate", can include the lack of communication or decisions of whether to communicate.
```suggestion
We reflected on how we handle incidents, make decisions, take necessary actions, and communicate both with reporters and/or reported persons. As a result of this reflection, we have been working on a template to guide the CoC steps.
```

Yanina Bellini Saibene attended the Book Club organized by R-Ladies Global to 

> read and discuss the book ["How to Respond to Code of Conduct Reports"](https://files.frameshiftconsulting.com/books/cocguide.pdf). It was a good opportunity to discuss and learn with 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
read and discuss the book ["How to Respond to Code of Conduct Reports"](https://files.frameshiftconsulting.com/books/cocguide.pdf). It was a good opportunity to discuss with and learn from 
```

> other CoC member of other organizations like R-Ladies, Bioconductor and Forwards. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
other CoC member of other organizations including R-Ladies, Bioconductor and Forwards. 
```

> other CoC member of other organizations including R-Ladies, Bioconductor and Forwards. 

Reviewer 4: Links to these organizations for context?

> We welcome your feedback by email to conduct at ropensci.org, 

Reviewer 4: Consider making it easy with a link?
```suggestion
We welcome your feedback by [email](mailto:conduct@ropensci.org) to conduct at ropensci.org, 
```

> and we thank you for continuing to work with us to make rOpenSci a safe, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and we thank you for continuing to work with us to ensure that rOpenSci remains a safe, 
```
